kbs/docs/config.md, before:

# KBS Configuration File

The Confidential Containers KBS properties can be configured through a
TOML-formatted configuration file.

>NOTE: Additional formats such as YAML and JSON are supported. Other formats
>supported by the `config` crate may be supported as well. This document uses
>TOML in the configuration examples.

The location of the configuration file is passed to the KBS binary using the
`-c` or `--config-file` command line option, or using the `KBS_CONFIG_FILE`
environment variable.

## Configurable Properties

The following sections list the KBS properties which can be set through the
configuration file.

### Global Properties

The following properties can be set globally, i.e. not under any configuration
section:

| Property                 | Type         | Description                                                                                                | Required | Default              |
|--------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------------|
| `sockets`                | String array | One or more sockets to listen on.                                                                          | No       | `["127.0.0.1:8080"]` |
| `insecure_api`           | Boolean      | Enable KBS insecure APIs such as Resource Registration without JWK verification.                           | No       | `false`              |
| `insecure_http`          | Boolean      | Don't use TLS for the KBS HTTP endpoint.                                                                   | No       | `false`              |
| `timeout`                | Integer      | HTTP session timeout in minutes.                                                                           | No       | `5`                  |
| `private_key`            | String       | Path to a private key file to be used for HTTPS.                                                           | No       | -                    |
| `certificate`            | String       | Path to a certificate file to be used for HTTPS.                                                           | No       | -                    |
| `auth_public_key`        | String       | Path to a public key file to be used for authenticating the resource registration endpoint token (JWT).    | No       | -                    |

### Attestation Token Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `attestation_token_config` section.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled.

| Property                   | Type          | Description                                         | Required | Default   |
|----------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| `attestation_token_config` | String        | Attestation token broker type. Valid values: `CoCo` | Yes      | -         |
| `trusted_certs_paths`        | String Array  | Trusted root certificates file paths (PEM format).  | No       | -         |

If `trusted_certs_paths` is set, KBS will forcibly check the validity of the Attestation Token signature public key certificate,
if not set this field, KBS will skip the verification of the certificate.

### Repository Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `repository_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

Repository configuration is **specific to a repository type**. See the following sections for
type-specific properties.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled. Only one repository is available at a time.

| Property | Type   | Description                                                     | Required | Default   |
|----------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| `type`   | String | The resource repository type. Valid values: `LocalFs`, `Aliyun` | Yes      | `LocalFs` |

**`LocalFs` Properties**

| Property   | Type   | Description                     | Required | Default                                             |
|------------|--------|---------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `dir_path` | String | Path to a repository directory. | No       | `/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository`       |

**`Aliyun` Properties**

| Property          | Type   | Description                       | Required | Example                                             |
|-------------------|--------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `client_key`      | String | The KMS instance's AAP client key | Yes      | `{"KeyId": "KA..", "PrivateKeyData": "MIIJqwI..."}` |
| `kms_instance_id` | String | The KMS instance id               | Yes      | `kst-shh668f7...`                                   |
| `password`        | String | AAP client key password           | Yes      | `8f9989c18d27...`                                   |
| `cert_pem`        | String | CA cert for the KMS instance      | Yes      | `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- ...`                   |

### Repository Plugin Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `plugin_manager_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled.

| Property                   | Type           | Description                                                | Required | Default |
|----------------------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `work_dir`                 | String         | Location for the Repository Plugin Manager to store data.  | Yes      | -       |
| `enabled_plugins`          | String Array   | Name of the plugins that will be configured and available. | Yes      | -       |

List of supported plugins that can be added to `enabled_plugins`.

| Plugin name           | Plugin Description                               | Available Cargo Features      |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|

### Native Attestation

The following properties can be set under the `as_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when one or more of the following features are enabled:
>`coco-as-builtin`, `coco-as-builtin-no-verifier`

| Property                   | Type                        | Description                                         | Required | Default |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `work_dir`                 | String                      | The location for Attestation Service to store data. | Yes      | -       |
| `policy_engine`            | String                      | Policy engine type. Valid values: `opa`             | Yes      | -       |
| `rvps_config`              | [RVPSConfiguration][2]      | RVPS configuration                                  | Yes      | -       |
| `attestation_token_broker` | String                      | Type of the attestation result token broker.        | Yes      | -       |
| `attestation_token_config` | [AttestationTokenConfig][1] | Attestation result token configuration.             | Yes      | -       |

[1]: #attestationtokenconfig
[2]: #rvps-configuration

#### AttestationTokenConfig

| Property       | Type                    | Description                                          | Required | Default |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `duration_min` | Integer                 | Duration of the attestation result token in minutes. | Yes      | -       |
| `issuer_name`  | String                  | Issure name of the attestation result token.         | No       | -       |
| `signer`       | [TokenSignerConfig][1]  | Signing material of the attestation result token.    | No       | -       |

[1]: #tokensignerconfig

#### TokenSignerConfig

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a new RSA key pair is generated and used.

| Property       | Type    | Description                                              | Required | Default |
|----------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `key_path`     | String  | RSA Key Pair file (PEM format) path.                     | Yes      | -       |
| `cert_url`     | String  | RSA Public Key certificate chain (PEM format) URL.       | No       | -       |
| `cert_path`    | String  | RSA Public Key certificate chain (PEM format) file path. | No       | -       |

#### RVPS Configuration

| Property       | Type                    | Description                                          | Required | Default |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `remote_addr`  | String                  | Remote RVPS' address. If this is specified, will use a remote RVPS. Or a local RVPS will be configured with `store_type` and `store_config`| Conditional       | -       |
| `store_type`   | String                  | Used if `remote_addr` is not set. The underlying storage type of RVPS.                                                                     | Conditional       | -       |
| `store_config` | JSON Map                | Used if `remote_addr` is not set. The optional configurations to the underlying storage.                                                   | Conditional       | -       |

Different `store_type` will have different `store_config` items.
See the details of `store_config` in [concrete implementations of storages](../../rvps/src/store/).

### gRPC Attestation

The following properties can be set under the `grpc_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when the `coco-as-grpc` feature is enabled.

| Property  | Type   | Description                  | Required | Default                  |
|-----------|--------|------------------------------|----------|--------------------------|
| `as_addr` | String | Attestation service address. | No       | `http://127.0.0.1:50004` |

### Intel Trust Authority (formerly known as Amber)

The following properties can be set under the `intel_trust_authority_config` section.

>This section is available only when the `intel-trust-authority-as` feature is enabled.

| Property                 | Type    | Description                                                                            | Required                | Default |
|--------------------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------|
| `base_url`               | String  | Intel Trust Authority API URL.                                                         | Yes                     | -       |
| `api_key`                | String  | Intel Trust Authority API key.                                                         | Yes                     | -       |
| `certs_file`             | String  | Path to an Intel Trust Authority certificates JWKS file used for token verification.   | Yes                     | -       |
| `allow_unmatched_policy` | Boolean | Determines whether to ignore the `policy_ids_unmatched` token claim.                   | No                      | false   |

Detailed [documentation](https://docs.trustauthority.intel.com).

### Policy Engine Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `policy_engine_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

| Property                 | Type    | Description                                                                                                | Required                | Default                                        |
|--------------------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `policy_path`            | String  | Path to a file containing a policy for evaluating whether the TCB status has access to specific resources. | No                      | `/opa/confidential-containers/kbs/policy.rego` |

## Configuration Examples

Running with a built-in native attestation service:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[as_config]
work_dir = "/opt/confidential-containers/attestation-service"
policy_engine = "opa"
rvps_store_type = "LocalFs"
attestation_token_broker = "Simple"

[as_config.attestation_token_config]
duration_min = 5
```

Running the attestation service remotely:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[grpc_config]
as_addr = "http://127.0.0.1:50004"
```

Running with Intel Trust Authority attestation service:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[intel_trust_authority_config]
base_url = "https://api.trustauthority.intel.com"
api_key = "tBfd5kKX2x9ahbodKV1..."
certs_file = "/etc/intel-trust-authority-certs.txt"
allow_unmatched_policy = true
```

Distributing resources in Passport mode:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[policy_engine_config]
policy_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/policy.rego"
```

Commit message:

kbs/resource: Add nebula plugin
The nebula plugin can be used to deliver credentials for nodes (confidential
PODs or VMs) to join a Nebula overlay network. Within the nebula network, the
communication between nodes is automatically encrypted by Nebula.

A nebula credential can be requested using the kbs-client:

kbs-client --url http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
           get-resource \
           --path 'plugin/nebula/credential?ip[ip]=10.11.12.13&ip[netbits]=21&name=pod1'

at least the IPv4 address (in CIDR notation) and the name of the node must be
provided in the query string. The other parameters supported can be found in
the struct NebulaCredentialParams.

After receiving a credential request, the nebula plugin will call the
nebula-cert binary to create a key pair and sign a certificate using the Nebula
CA. The generated node.crt and node.key, as well as the ca.rt are then returned
to the caller.

During the nebula-plugin initialization, a self signed Nebula CA can be created
if 'ca_generation_policy = 1' in the nebula-config.toml, the file contains all
parameters supported. Another option is to pre-install a ca.key and ca.crt, and
set 'ca_generation_policy = 2'.

The nebula-plugin cargo feature is set by default, however the plugin itself is
not initialized by default. In order to initialize it, you need to add 'nebula'
to 'manager_plugin_config.enabled_plugins' in the kbs-config.toml.

Closes #396

Signed-off-by: Claudio Carvalho <cclaudio@linux.ibm.com>

kbs/docs/config.md, after:

# KBS Configuration File

The Confidential Containers KBS properties can be configured through a
TOML-formatted configuration file.

>NOTE: Additional formats such as YAML and JSON are supported. Other formats
>supported by the `config` crate may be supported as well. This document uses
>TOML in the configuration examples.

The location of the configuration file is passed to the KBS binary using the
`-c` or `--config-file` command line option, or using the `KBS_CONFIG_FILE`
environment variable.

## Configurable Properties

The following sections list the KBS properties which can be set through the
configuration file.

### Global Properties

The following properties can be set globally, i.e. not under any configuration
section:

| Property                 | Type         | Description                                                                                                | Required | Default              |
|--------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------------|
| `sockets`                | String array | One or more sockets to listen on.                                                                          | No       | `["127.0.0.1:8080"]` |
| `insecure_api`           | Boolean      | Enable KBS insecure APIs such as Resource Registration without JWK verification.                           | No       | `false`              |
| `insecure_http`          | Boolean      | Don't use TLS for the KBS HTTP endpoint.                                                                   | No       | `false`              |
| `timeout`                | Integer      | HTTP session timeout in minutes.                                                                           | No       | `5`                  |
| `private_key`            | String       | Path to a private key file to be used for HTTPS.                                                           | No       | -                    |
| `certificate`            | String       | Path to a certificate file to be used for HTTPS.                                                           | No       | -                    |
| `auth_public_key`        | String       | Path to a public key file to be used for authenticating the resource registration endpoint token (JWT).    | No       | -                    |

### Attestation Token Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `attestation_token_config` section.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled.

| Property                   | Type          | Description                                         | Required | Default   |
|----------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| `attestation_token_config` | String        | Attestation token broker type. Valid values: `CoCo` | Yes      | -         |
| `trusted_certs_paths`        | String Array  | Trusted root certificates file paths (PEM format).  | No       | -         |

If `trusted_certs_paths` is set, KBS will forcibly check the validity of the Attestation Token signature public key certificate,
if not set this field, KBS will skip the verification of the certificate.

### Repository Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `repository_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

Repository configuration is **specific to a repository type**. See the following sections for
type-specific properties.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled. Only one repository is available at a time.

| Property | Type   | Description                                                     | Required | Default   |
|----------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| `type`   | String | The resource repository type. Valid values: `LocalFs`, `Aliyun` | Yes      | `LocalFs` |

**`LocalFs` Properties**

| Property   | Type   | Description                     | Required | Default                                             |
|------------|--------|---------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `dir_path` | String | Path to a repository directory. | No       | `/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository`       |

**`Aliyun` Properties**

| Property          | Type   | Description                       | Required | Example                                             |
|-------------------|--------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `client_key`      | String | The KMS instance's AAP client key | Yes      | `{"KeyId": "KA..", "PrivateKeyData": "MIIJqwI..."}` |
| `kms_instance_id` | String | The KMS instance id               | Yes      | `kst-shh668f7...`                                   |
| `password`        | String | AAP client key password           | Yes      | `8f9989c18d27...`                                   |
| `cert_pem`        | String | CA cert for the KMS instance      | Yes      | `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- ...`                   |

### Repository Plugin Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `plugin_manager_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when the `resource` feature is enabled.

| Property                   | Type           | Description                                                | Required | Default |
|----------------------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `work_dir`                 | String         | Location for the Repository Plugin Manager to store data.  | Yes      | -       |
| `enabled_plugins`          | String Array   | Name of the plugins that will be configured and available. | Yes      | -       |

List of supported plugins that can be added to `enabled_plugins`.

| Plugin name           | Plugin Description                               | Available Cargo Features      |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| `nebula`              | Provide resources to support the creation of a Nebula encrypted overlay network between nodes.  | `nebula-plugin` |

### Native Attestation

The following properties can be set under the `as_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when one or more of the following features are enabled:
>`coco-as-builtin`, `coco-as-builtin-no-verifier`

| Property                   | Type                        | Description                                         | Required | Default |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `work_dir`                 | String                      | The location for Attestation Service to store data. | Yes      | -       |
| `policy_engine`            | String                      | Policy engine type. Valid values: `opa`             | Yes      | -       |
| `rvps_config`              | [RVPSConfiguration][2]      | RVPS configuration                                  | Yes      | -       |
| `attestation_token_broker` | String                      | Type of the attestation result token broker.        | Yes      | -       |
| `attestation_token_config` | [AttestationTokenConfig][1] | Attestation result token configuration.             | Yes      | -       |

[1]: #attestationtokenconfig
[2]: #rvps-configuration

#### AttestationTokenConfig

| Property       | Type                    | Description                                          | Required | Default |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `duration_min` | Integer                 | Duration of the attestation result token in minutes. | Yes      | -       |
| `issuer_name`  | String                  | Issure name of the attestation result token.         | No       | -       |
| `signer`       | [TokenSignerConfig][1]  | Signing material of the attestation result token.    | No       | -       |

[1]: #tokensignerconfig

#### TokenSignerConfig

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a new RSA key pair is generated and used.

| Property       | Type    | Description                                              | Required | Default |
|----------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `key_path`     | String  | RSA Key Pair file (PEM format) path.                     | Yes      | -       |
| `cert_url`     | String  | RSA Public Key certificate chain (PEM format) URL.       | No       | -       |
| `cert_path`    | String  | RSA Public Key certificate chain (PEM format) file path. | No       | -       |

#### RVPS Configuration

| Property       | Type                    | Description                                          | Required | Default |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `remote_addr`  | String                  | Remote RVPS' address. If this is specified, will use a remote RVPS. Or a local RVPS will be configured with `store_type` and `store_config`| Conditional       | -       |
| `store_type`   | String                  | Used if `remote_addr` is not set. The underlying storage type of RVPS.                                                                     | Conditional       | -       |
| `store_config` | JSON Map                | Used if `remote_addr` is not set. The optional configurations to the underlying storage.                                                   | Conditional       | -       |

Different `store_type` will have different `store_config` items.
See the details of `store_config` in [concrete implementations of storages](../../rvps/src/store/).

### gRPC Attestation

The following properties can be set under the `grpc_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

>This section is available only when the `coco-as-grpc` feature is enabled.

| Property  | Type   | Description                  | Required | Default                  |
|-----------|--------|------------------------------|----------|--------------------------|
| `as_addr` | String | Attestation service address. | No       | `http://127.0.0.1:50004` |

### Intel Trust Authority (formerly known as Amber)

The following properties can be set under the `intel_trust_authority_config` section.

>This section is available only when the `intel-trust-authority-as` feature is enabled.

| Property                 | Type    | Description                                                                            | Required                | Default |
|--------------------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------|
| `base_url`               | String  | Intel Trust Authority API URL.                                                         | Yes                     | -       |
| `api_key`                | String  | Intel Trust Authority API key.                                                         | Yes                     | -       |
| `certs_file`             | String  | Path to an Intel Trust Authority certificates JWKS file used for token verification.   | Yes                     | -       |
| `allow_unmatched_policy` | Boolean | Determines whether to ignore the `policy_ids_unmatched` token claim.                   | No                      | false   |

Detailed [documentation](https://docs.trustauthority.intel.com).

### Policy Engine Configuration

The following properties can be set under the `policy_engine_config` section.

This section is **optional**. When omitted, a default configuration is used.

| Property                 | Type    | Description                                                                                                | Required                | Default                                        |
|--------------------------|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `policy_path`            | String  | Path to a file containing a policy for evaluating whether the TCB status has access to specific resources. | No                      | `/opa/confidential-containers/kbs/policy.rego` |

## Configuration Examples

Running with a built-in native attestation service:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[as_config]
work_dir = "/opt/confidential-containers/attestation-service"
policy_engine = "opa"
rvps_store_type = "LocalFs"
attestation_token_broker = "Simple"

[as_config.attestation_token_config]
duration_min = 5
```

Running the attestation service remotely:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[grpc_config]
as_addr = "http://127.0.0.1:50004"
```

Running with Intel Trust Authority attestation service:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[intel_trust_authority_config]
base_url = "https://api.trustauthority.intel.com"
api_key = "tBfd5kKX2x9ahbodKV1..."
certs_file = "/etc/intel-trust-authority-certs.txt"
allow_unmatched_policy = true
```

Distributing resources in Passport mode:

```toml
insecure_http = true
insecure_api = true

[repository_config]
type = "LocalFs"
dir_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/repository"

[policy_engine_config]
policy_path = "/opt/confidential-containers/kbs/policy.rego"
```
